Stuart Oxford. 123

forbidden to keep hounds and horses. On May Day
the Visitors, Mayor‚ and the well-affected of the
University and city joined in a crusade against
young people that followed the games 3 garlands were
broken, fiddles taken away from the musicians, and
the Morris Dancers dispersed3 the custom of wearing
green boughs in the hat, or placing them over doors,
was condemned as superstitious and heathenish. All
traces of monarchy were obliterated, ‘such as the
King's arms in public places, his arms and head on
common s1gns belonging to inns and alehouses;’
Bradshaw, Master ol Balliol ‘called sor the Grace
(which hung in the College Hall pasted on a wooden
board) and dashed out the name ol the King and
Queen, and commanded that thenceforth no memory
should be made os them either in the Grace in Hall
or Prayers in Chapel.’

In 1649 Cromwell and Fairlarr, paid a state visit to
Oxlord, lodged at All Souls, and played bowls on
Magdalen College Green. Honorary D.C.L. degrees
were conferred on both, and from 1650 to 1657
Cromwell acted as Chancellor.

But notwithstanding, the suppressed loyalty os the
University was continually breaking out. ‘On May
29‚1648, the Prince's birthday‚ New College made a
bonfire on the mount in the college walks alter nine
ol the clock at night; also Trinity; the doors were
barred and entrance refused to the soldiers.'

In July the same year there was a conspiracy to

 

