82 ‘Rirae Oxonz'cnses.

Masters’ assertion that they were acting according to
precedent, refused to confirm the election. The
question was eventually decided by the King in favour
ol the Bishop‚ that the Masters were bound to present
the Chancellor-elect in person not only within but

without the limits of the town. Finally a composition ⁵

’ was arrived at, by which the Masters agreed to present Ἰ
the Chancellor in person, if they could go to the
Bishop and return without missing a lecture ; but if
the Bishop were in such distant parts that this was
not possible, the Chancellor should be confirmed by '
proxy. But the quarrel was not set at rest for long.
In 1294 the Bishop ‘with many peevish arguings’
claimed that Chancellors should properly be nominated
by him, not elected by the University. In 1350 John
Gynwell‚ Bishop of Lincoln‚ refused to confirm Walter
de Palmoma, though duly elected according to custom
and statute. Wearied with the delay, the University
appealed to Simon Islip‚ Archbishop ol Canterbury.
Their complaint was courteously received, and the Α
Bishop was ordered to admit the Chancellor within
six days, or appear before the Archbishop and show
cause. He did neither the one nor the other, and
Islip thereupon granted a commission to John de
Carleton to confirm the Chancellor. Then followed
a controversy, which was ‘acted very high, not with-
out great scom between the ¹Prelates.’ The Bishop
appealed to the Pope; the Archbishop regarding such
appeal as frivolous and vexatious, cited the Bishop

 

