Stuart Oxford. 115 .

Rupert‚Prince Maurice,and his sons Charles and JameS,
marched through North Gate‚ fresh lrom Edgehill, with
some sixty or seventy colours captured from the rebels.
Steps were taken to disarm the citizens and to fortify
the place. The situation of Oxlord was apt lor de-
sence, being placed within the river Isis on the west,
and Cherwell on the east, both meeting on the south
side. These rivers were so ordered by locks and
sluices that the city could be surrounded by water on
three sides. On the north, according to a plan ol
fortification drawn by Rallingson,a B.A. ol Queen’s
College, were built many strong bulwarks strongly set
with palisades and deep ditches. The University
Bellman summoned all privileged persons, that were
housekeeperS, to send some of their family to dig at
the works; citizens were told off to work at bulwarks
to the north os St. Giles' Church ; all scholars over
sixteen were required to work at least one daya week‚
or pay a fine ol one shilling.

Arms and ammunition were stored in N ew College
tower and cloisters3 corn was laid in the law and
logie schools, victuals in the Guild Hali, clothes of
soldiers in the music and astronomy schools; gun-
powder was made at Oseney Mill; a mint was set up
at New Inn, whither all the colleges were ordered to
send their plate. Lectures ceased‚ the lecturers
became recruiting sergeants3 gown gave way to mili-
tary coat, square cap to helmet; ‘Minerva disappeared
from Oxsord to reappear as Pallas?

H 2

 

