Sluart Oxford. 119

They sat about an hour that day accompanied by
freshmen and boys, and met several times after, but
what they did, and how they put off the time‚' Ι know
not, neither was it known by any then, because few or
none of any standing took heed os them! The visit-
ation actually commenced on September 29, by which
time additional powers had been conferred by Parlia·
ment on the visitors. The Vice·Chancellor, Dr. Fell,
when summoned before the visitors‚ refused ‘to appear
before such inconsiderable persons' Heads of Houses, ·
when ordered to bring all statuteS‚ registers, and
documents relating to the government of their re-
spective Colleges, declined to acknowledge the author·
ity of any visitor but the King, or those sent im-
mediately by his Majesty. The clerk of the Univer-
sity declared himself unable to surrender the keys of
the Schools and Convocation House3 the Bedells
stated that their staves were in the eustody of the
Vice·Chancellor. The orders of the London Com-
mittee, who now intervened‚ and passed sentence of
deprivation upon several Heads os Houses, Canons of
Christ Church, the Vice·Chancellor and Proctors, were

p ἱ disregarded; notices placarded in public places ‘were ·

plucked down by the juniors, torn in pieces, and cast
into the dirt with scom!

At length in the spring of 1648 the visitation ‘which
had beenflfor some time the sleeping lion began to
rouse itself.’ Fairfax ordered the military to bein
readiness to carry out their orders, if necessary. A

 

