40 Ratae Oxom‘enses.

oi three thousand, as well masters as juniors, lest
Oxsora so that not one remained behind, but either
went some to Cambridge, some to Reading, and
others to Maydestone in Kent, to make a iarther
progress in their studies. These things being done,
intelligente was immediately sent to the Diocesan (the
Bishop of Lincoln), and at length to dne Pope, who,
having heard the 'matter with patience, did sorthwith
interdict the Town, that is, commanded all religious
services to cease, church doors to be shut up, none to
bc buried in consecrated ground, none to have the
sacrament administered to them, only at une point of
death. The king alsowas forced in a manner to seize
upon the liberties of the Burghers, and to take the
Town into his hands, lest in doing nothing in the
matter, he should displease the Clergy, and so conse·
quently the Pope. Howsoever it was, the dispersion

wasa great stop to the progress oi literature, and the . ’

more so, because that such that lived remote and
beyond the scas, never returned again, hut either went
to their homes orto Paris. ln 1213, the Town being
still empty, trading low and the Burghers under

’ interdict or excommunication, great lamentation was

among them, and the more lor this reason, that they
found no rent coming in lor their houses, and that
most ol the Scholars went away abruptly in their
debt. At length, Nicolas, Bishop ol Tusculum (the
Pope's Legate) coming into England this year, the
chlelest ol the Burghers repaired to him at West-

 

