The Battles os the Nations‚ 21

demanded, into whatever diocese they might have
fled. If they held benefices, the proceeds should be
sequestrated for three years, and devoted to the pay-
ment of damages for the injuries they had committed;
unbeneficed clerks should be deemed incapable of
institution to any benefice for a term of five years,

Persons suspected of riotous behaviour were required
to find sureties sor their good behaviour3 a list of
those who evaded justice was kept; scholars were
forbidden to carry arms unless entering or leaving the
town on a joumey.

In 1334 a fight between the Northern and Southern
Nations‚ resulted in the retirement os the former to
Stamford in Lincolnshire. This secession is the most
important os the many that occurred in the history of
‘Town and Gown' and ‘National’ conflicts. In 1261
disturbances of the former description occurring simul·
taneously at Oxford and Cambridge, students retired
from both Universities to Northampton, and with the '
permission os Henry III continued to pursue their
studies in that town. In 1264 when in the wars
between the king and barons, the former with a great
force went to disperse the latter, assembled at
Northampton, these scholars ‘collected under a banner
by themselves and with their slings, long-bows and
crossbows, did vex and gall the King’s men, so that ’
the king taking notice of them, and zealouslyinquiring
who they were, swore with a deep oath he would have
them all hanged’ The result, however, was not so

 

